# SURVIVAL ANALYSIS USING DEEP SEMI-SUPERVISED MULTITASK LEARNING ALGORITHM

### INTRODUCTION
An important challenge in the analysis of longitudinal data is the ability to accurately forecast the period at which an event of interest will occur. The existence of instances whose event outcomes become impossible to see beyond a given point in time or when some instances go the entire monitoring period without experiencing any events is one of the primary issues in this setting. Such a process is referred to as censoring, and it can be effectively managed utilizing approaches from survival analysis. Recently, machine learning approaches have drawn a lot of interest, particularly when used to the creation of prediction models from data. Although they may have advantages over traditional statistical techniques, such as the capacity to model non-linear relationships and to build symbolic and understandable models, their applications to survival analysis are at best infrequent, primarily due to the challenge of handling censored data in an appropriate manner. In this study, we give a thorough and organized analysis of the representative statistical techniques applied to survival analysis, and we present a schema for multitask learning in the realm of survival analysis using deep learning approach. The later was applied to four real life data and the performance of the model were compared against the classical methods using C-index and Integrated briers score. The results on the four data sets revealed an improvement in prediction accuracy with deep learning method over the classical methods. Finally, the most associated variables were selected across the real life data and plotted on the variable important chart. This study aims to formulate the survival analysis problem as a multi-task learning problem and apply a deep semisupervised multitask learning algorithms on time to event dataset.

## Discussion
This study proposed a new survival analysis model that transformed the survival problem into a multitask learning model composed of semi-supervised learning problems with multiple time point survival probability predictions based on deep learning. Considering data censoring and the nonincreasing trend of the survival probability in survival analysis, a new objective function was proposed for the model, which was applied to survival analysis problems with or without considering CRs. The predictive performance of the DeepHit model was better than that of other benchmark models in predicting the prognosis without CRs of 3 different datasets, and was better than or comparable with that of other benchmark models with CRs.

The SSMTL model obtained better performance than commonly used models for survival analysis in 4 different cancer datasets because the model can successfully capture time dependent and nonlinear effects, make full use of the censoring information, and correctly depict the complex interactions between factors and the survival outcome. The deep neural network structure of the model contains multiple layers of nonlinear transformation neurons, which can fit the nonlinear effects of different factors. The model directly determines the probability of survival and does not rely on the proportional hazard assumption. Moreover, the model uses complete data and censoring data in the logarithmic loss function and semi-supervised loss function, constrains the nonincreasing trend of the survival probability with the ranking loss, and prevents model overfitting by employing the L1 and L2 loss functions. Through the multitask learning of survival prediction at multiple time points, the model meets data sharing and mutuality constraints among multiple prediction tasks and successfully captures the complex interactions among factors and survival outcomes, which improves the accuracy and generalization ability of the model. The possible improvements to the model in the future include enriching the deep learning architecture to avoid overfitting and improving the model generalization ability through explicit penalties or constraints. In addition, we plan to study other advanced models through large-scale experiments and compare the performance of different methods in clinical risk prediction. In particular, large data sets would be collected from hospitals to test the effectiveness and practicality of the model.
3.7 Conclusion
The survival analysis model proposed in this study can address the survival analysis problem with or without considering CRs. The performance of the SSMTL model (DeepHit) for survival analysis was better than that of other common models, and the effects of predictive factors were successfully described. The research in this study is of great significance for the exploration and application of deep learning methods involving medical structured data.

